in the 21st century in the era of the
Internet in the era of the instantaneous
Google search in the era of the
increasing availability of information
but also the decreasing depth of that
available information in some ways
expertise and experience are underrated
and in some ways they're overrated I am
the last person to come on the internet
and discourage you from making your own
YouTube videos talking about issues in
politics history religion philosophy
even and the last person to discourage
you by saying you're not an expert in
this however what I encourage you to do
is to speak in a really honest way from
sources and speak to your own bias your
own perspective and that way you won't
make videos that you yourself look back
on later and regret don't speak in an
objective voice as if you're not working
from a finite set of sources and to
certain conclusions that are guided by
your own bias your own agenda
which is fine that's normal it's normal
to say well look I just read these one
or two books it may just be you read
these one or two Wikipedia articles
let's face it most YouTube videos are
not even made on the basis of reading
two whole books right and then it's a
look this is why I read the books when I
when I read these books I had this
preconceived idea I this is you and I
had this interest and now here's the
conclusion I came towards maybe you
challenged your own bias and now this we
think and you know what somebody in the
audience may reach out to you and say
hey look you don't realize it but the
two books you read or really biased are
really one-sided they're actually let's
say they're communist propaganda
depending on the topic there's communist
propaganda there hey you know if you
look at these other facts of this other
version of events you're gonna get a
different perspective when I was living
in Laos let's say the first one year I
was living in Laos if you don't know
what Laos is Laos is a small country
north of Cambodia northeast of Thailand
west of Vietnam okay it's a small
country in Southeast Asia
when I was living in Laos my first year
there I need you read six books about
the history of Laos like maybe six and
there aren't that many books that exist
on the history of Laos I went to the
library there and I would get these
collections of conference papers these
huge tomes from these academic
conferences and it would take them off
the shelf and I would go through and
read every article dealing with the
history of Laos that was in there and I
probably read a pretty big percentage of
what exists in the English language or
both history flows and then I would meet
these people I would meet people who had
PhDs I would meet people who were
writing books on this topic you know
sometimes there are people who wrote
more like guidebooks for tourists other
cons history books and it seems like I
always knew more than they did it seemed
like I was better informed and I didn't
think of myself as an expert and this is
a kind of shocking and strange thing
about the world of expertise and
university credentials and who knows
what and why and you know what the huge
advantage I had was was I was honest
with myself and was honest with others
about how little I knew and and what it
was I relied on for that knowledge how
it was I came to know those things all
right skepticism isn't just something
you apply outward with the world the
world of scientific phenomena outside
you it's something you have to imply you
have to apply inwardly you have to look
in the mirror skeptically you have to
examine your own conclusion skeptically
and how you came to those movies or what
was your agenda what were your
assumptions what were the sources he
relied upon all right if you can do that
on YouTube then you can make brilliant
valuable meaningful videos even when
you're not an expert and I would say the
same about writing essays about
exploring new topics and new themes in
life okay
there is another YouTube channel he's
also vegan I'm vegan he's also an
atheist I'm an atheist okay called
cosmic skeptic and I deeply hate this
guy I oughta rly despise his YouTube
content we have so much in common and
yet I hate him and this hatred is
demonstrated really well by a video he
just did recent
about Galileo okay so it's about the
trial of Galileo and the thing is I
don't know to what extent this kid is
consciously aware that he's creating new
mythology I don't know if he's really
aware of how dishonest he's being how
misleading he's being in telling this
story from history because he's not
honest about his sources he's not honest
about his motivations his purpose his
biases he's not honest about the process
here and the product is this bizarre and
baffling concoction of half-truths
mythology so on and so forth
now I'm gonna prove this to you with
just one source okay let's be clear if
you haven't watched cosmic skeptics
video about Galileo don't watch it
it's garbage okay but if you have
watched it you can challenge the quasi
historical fable he presents by simply
looking at the Wikipedia article for
Galileo's theory of the times tide tige
okay so Galileo's theory of the tides
coming in tides going on if you just
look at that one Wikipedia article you
are suddenly gonna be where whoa there's
there's a whole different side to this
history like in terms of the biography
of Galileo in terms of what his
relationship was with the church in
terms of what his project was as an
author I mean you can think of the guy
as a scientist but most of what he was
doing was more like a social critic an
author he was being a provocative
philosopher intellectual he was
political junkie whoa when you look at
this one Wikipedia article about
Galileo's theory of the tides and is
ever coal that includes also some of the
information of the the church's response
to it you realize okay what was going on
here it was not the case that Galileo
was a humble scientist who was just
interested in using his telescope and he
discovered this book written by
Copernicus no okay no all right for
those of you who don't know the details
the details are
and this is part of what's so
frustrating about encountering
misinformation about politics political
history philosophy so on and so forth it
would be tremendously boring it would be
a tremendous waste of my time
for me to get out the books from the
library and really go through in a
detailed way and explain to you how and
why cosmic skeptics video about Galileo
is misleading and how it's really a kind
of dangerous mythology it's a new fable
being presented to the audience and you
know it's not just a waste of my time
the sad fact is it would probably be a
waste of your time
also I mean there is no audience for it
right so in this way on the Internet
mythology proliferate and of course you
know the scariest examples are mythology
about world war two you know mythology
about the Russian Revolution communism
in Russia and so on and you know a lot I
mean I'm saying the word mythology here
it's not that you're looking at
something that's completely false you
know there are bits and pieces of the
truth put together in a misleading way
in an appealing package a fable with a
clear moral to the story right what
again real history is never like that
you know and I've seen this being done
by people who are communists and I've
seen people who were not communists and
who were not even aware they were
reading communist propaganda getting
totally misled and bent out of shape
who's read this this is a parallel
example the problem with cosmic skeptic
has nothing to do with communism I've
seen this happen on a massive scale with
Buddhism where disinformation about
Buddhism often you know carefully pieced
together from little bits and pieces of
the truth that go together to make a
modern myth I've met so many people
including people with PhDs who believe
that there is no hell in Buddhism that
there's no going to hell after you die
but ISM and who are shocked when I tell
them that no I mean the the pally can
the actual Bible of Buddhism it's full
of vivid descriptions of Hell that go on
for many many pages and there are even
you could say very very cynical
descriptions of how the concept of Hell
is part of a social engineering project
that the Buddha is consciously engaged
in to change human behavior by
instilling in people and awareness of
Hell in a fear of Hell instilling in
people the desire to be reborn in heaven
how this changes humaid or a change of
society you get kind of weird cynical
discussions in that you get straight-up
mythology about hell and you know I see
the way the whole world including of
course leaders of public opinion YouTube
the the step-by-step get into this
process of mythologizing this process of
you know
valorizing history and philosophy and it
produces incredibly warped views of
politics and along the way nobody is
being honest about precisely what I'm
begging you to be honest about saying if
you make youtube videos if you write
essays if you're engaging those to be
honest about how you know what it is you
know and what were your motivations your
bias is what was your dinner what were
your motivations for discovering that to
begin with you know and then maybe how
your views were challenged and be honest
with yourself and others about how
finite the basis of your knowledge is
because then when it changes later
you'll be able to look back and then say
hey you know what my view of the
abolition of slavery was really warped
because I only looked at one period of
time in American history and I didn't
think about Haiti and I didn't think
about China I didn't think about ancient
Egypt you know later in my life I knew
all these other examples and you know
what I didn't even think about the
earlier period of slavery within the
United States of America you know if you
only focused on this Civil War period
but actually we're talking about
centuries going all the way back to
Christopher Columbus and the importance
of slavery in the genocide of native
people and maybe now working from more
sources better sources greater knowledge
and maybe with a different set of
motivations different set of
sensitivities
maybe now you're coming to different
conclusions it's the most wonderful
thing in the world for non specialists
and non experts to come here on YouTube
and my own Explorer experience is in
every field I've worked in including
history and politics of Southeast Asia
Laos and Cambodia oh my god the experts
on the history of Cambodia the experts
on the politics of Cambodia which is
maybe the most extreme example of the
the failure of communism of communism
killing huge numbers of people in a
short span of time oh my god the
perspective of the experts on the
history of Cambodia is way worse and way
more dishonest and way more fictitious
than what you're gonna get from amateurs
here on YouTube look up Noam Chomsky and
his excuses for mass murder under the
Comerica whoo there are some fields
where the experts are all ideological
maniacs and Buddhist studies is a great
example that it's only people who really
believed in reincarnation and really
believed that meditation is gonna solve
all your emotional problems
these are the people with PhDs
publishing books on Buddhism and shaping
the way the world sees these things
there's no doubt that an intelligent
outsider with detachment and skepticism
can come to more valuable conclusions
about Cambodia and Laos more valuable
conclusions about Buddhism more valuable
conclusions about Galileo or whatever
the case may be but you have to have
this rigorous honesty where you don't
just disclose your sources you even
reflect on why and how it is that you
ended up choosing those sources because
there was some other choice with the
opposite perspective that you rejected
or you didn't even find out about right
let's be honest about our own ignorance
let's be honest about where our
knowledge comes from and where it's
going what the motivations are that
drive us forward in that quest for
knowledge let's learn together because
ignorant is infinite and the desire we
have to better ourselves and make the
world a better place through learning
tragically is all too finite indeed